Step 1: Open Power BI, Click on Get Data → OData Feed
Paste Url : http://services.odata.org/V3/Northwind/Northwind.svc/

Step 2: Click on Check Box of Products table and then click on Edit

Remove other columns to only display columns of interest 
In Query Editor, select the ProductID, ProductName, QuantityPerUnit, and UnitsInStock 
columns (use Ctrl+Click to select more than one column, or Shift+Click to select columns that 
are beside each other). 

Select Remove Columns > Remove Other Columns from the ribbon, or right click on a column 
header and click Remove Other Columns

After selecting Remove Other Columns only selected four columns are displayed other 
columns are discarded. 

Change the data type of the UnitsInStock column 
a) Select the UnitsInStock column.
b) Select the Data Type drop-down button in the Home ribbon. 
c) If not already a Whole Number, select Whole Number for data type from the drop down (the Data 
Type: button also displays the data type for the current selection). 

After clicking on Whole number, you can see the changed Datatype in column header of UnitsInStock

After above step, close query editor and click on Yes to save changes. 
Now you can view fields of Products table on right side, check all the fields of table to get 
representation in charts form.

3. Expand the Orders table 
Once You have loaded a data source, you can click on Recent Sources to select desired table (Orders).

After selecting the URL, Navigator window will appear from which you can select Orders table. 
Click on Edit.

Query Editor Window will appear 
1. In the Query View, scroll to the Order_Details column. 
2. In the Order_Details column, select the expand icon. 
3. In the Expand drop-down: 
a. Select (Select All Columns) to clear all columns. 
b. Select ProductID, UnitPrice, and Quantity. 
c. Click OK.

After clicking on OK following screen appears with combined columns

4. Calculate the line total for each Order_Details row 
Power BI Desktop lets you to create calculations based on the columns you are importing, so you 
can enrich the data that you connect to. In this step, you create a Custom Column to calculate the 
line total for each Order_Details row. 
Calculate the line total for each Order_Details row: 
a) In the Add Column ribbon tab, click Add Custom Column.
b) In the Custom Column dialog box, in the Custom Column Formula textbox, enter 
[Order_Details.UnitPrice] * [Order_Details.Quantity] by selecting from available columns 
and click on insert for each column. 
c) In the New column name textbox, enter LineTotal. 
d) Click OK. 

5. Rename and reorder columns in the query 
In this step you finish making the model easy to work with when creating reports, by renaming the 
final columns and changing their order. 
a) In Query Editor, drag the LineTotal column to the left, after ShipCountry. 

b) Remove the Order_Details. prefix from the Order_Details.ProductID, Order_Details.UnitPrice and 
Order_Details.Quantity columns, by double-clicking on each column header, and then deleting that 
text from the column name.

Combine the Products and Total Sales queries 
Power BI Desktop does not require you to combine queries to report on them. Instead, you can create 
relationships between datasets. These relationships can be created on any column that is common to 
your datasets. 

In this task, you confirm that a relationship is established in Power BI Desktop between the Products 
and Total Sales queries 
Step 1: Confirm the relationship between Products and Total Sales 1. First, we need to load the model 
that we created in Query Editor into Power BI Desktop. From the Home ribbon of Query Editor, select 
Close & Apply.

Step 2: Power BI Desktop loads the data from the two queries.

Step 3: Once the data is loaded, select the Manage Relationships button Home ribbon 

Step 4. Select the New… button

Step 5: When we attempt to create the relationship, we see that one already exists! As shown in the 
Create Relationship dialog (by the shaded columns), the ProductsID fields in each query already have 
an established relationship.

Step 6: Select Cancel, and then select Relationship view in Power BI Desktop. 

Step 7: We see the following, which visualizes the relationship between the queries.

Step 8: When you double-click the arrow on the line that connects the to queries, an Edit Relationship 
dialog appears. 

Step 9: No need to make any changes, so we'll just select Cancel to close the Edit Relationship dialog.